1a(1): the original words and form of a written or printed work
(2): an edited or emended copy of an original work
b: a work containing such text
2a: the main body of printed or written matter on a page
b: the principal part of a book exclusive of front and back matter
c: the printed score of a musical composition
3a(1): a verse or passage of Scripture chosen especially for the subject of a sermon or for authoritative support (as for a doctrine)
(2): a passage from an authoritative source providing an introduction or basis (as for a speech)
b: a source of information or authority
4: THEME, TOPIC
5a: the words of something (such as a poem) set to music
b: matter chiefly in the form of words or symbols that is treated as data for processing by computerized equipment
text-editing software
6: a type suitable for printing running text
7: TEXTBOOK
8a: something (such as a story or movie) considered as an object to be examined, explicated, or deconstructed
b: something likened to a text
the surfaces of daily life are texts to be explicated
— Michiko Kakutani
9: FRAME OF REFERENCE sense 2
updated to fit the women's lib text for consciousness raising
— Judith Crist
10: TEXT MESSAGE
sent a text with the details
text verb
texted\ ˈtek-​stəd  , nonstandard  ˈtekst \; texting
Definition of text (Entry 2 of 2)
transitive verb

: to send a text message from one cell phone to another
intransitive verb

: to communicate by text messaging
Other Words from text
Synonyms
More Example Sentences
Learn More About text

Other Words from text
Verb

texter noun
Synonyms for text
Synonyms: Noun

handbook, manual, primer, textbookVisit the Thesaurus for More 
Examples of text in a Sentence
Noun
 A good critic will refer back to the text often.
 You can find the full text of his speech on his website.
See More
Recent Examples on the Web: Noun
The mother found her location through the text messages and notified Phoenix police, according to arrest documents.
— The Arizona Republic, 15 Oct. 2021
The United Methodist Church, based in the United States, plans to use a mass messaging platform to send text messages to the cellphones of around 32,000 followers in Ivory Coast, Congo, Liberia and Nigeria.
— Farai Mutsaka, ajc, 13 Oct. 2021
These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'text.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.

See More
First Known Use of text
Noun

14th century, in the meaning defined at sense 1a(1)

Verb

1998, in the meaning defined at transitive sense

History and Etymology for text
Noun

Middle English, from Anglo-French tiste, texte, from Medieval Latin textus, from Latin, texture, context, from texere to weave — more at TECHNICAL

Learn More About text
Share text
Post the Definition of text to FacebookShare the Definition of text on Twitter
Time Traveler for text

The first known use of text was in the 14th century
See more words from the same century

From the Editors at Merriam-Webster
several people texting in a row
Words We're Watching: 'Textbanking'
Can we count on you to read this article?

image2136071978
Tech-y Terms Are Older Than You Think
People have been blogging since the 18th century.

top 10 new words for old things cloth diapers
Why Did "Cloth Diapers" Make a Change?
Top 10 New Words for Old Things

Dictionary Entries Near text
Tex-Mex

text

text Bible

See More Nearby Entries 
Phrases Related to text
set book/text

set texts

Statistics for text
Last Updated

18 Oct 2021

Look-up Popularity
Top 1% of words

Cite this Entry

“Text.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/text. Accessed 25 Oct. 2021.

Seen & Heard
People are talking about

What made you look up this word?
Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible).


Log In
Powered by
TermsPrivacyFeedback
More Definitions for text
text noun
English Language Learners Definition of text (Entry 1 of 2)
: the original words of a piece of writing or a speech
: the words that make up the main part of a book, magazine, newspaper, Web site, etc.
: a book or other piece of writing
especially : one that is studied
text verb
English Language Learners Definition of text (Entry 2 of 2)
: to send someone a text message
See the full definition for text in the English Language Learners Dictionary

text noun
\ ˈtekst \
Kids Definition of text (Entry 1 of 2)
1: the actual words of an author's work
2: the main body of printed or written matter on a page
3: TEXTBOOK
4: a Bible passage that is the subject of a sermon
5: TEXT MESSAGE
text verb
texted; texting
Kids Definition of text (Entry 2 of 2)
1: to send (someone) a text message
2: to communicate by text messaging
More from Merriam-Webster on text
Nglish: Translation of text for Spanish Speakers

Britannica English: Translation of text for Arabic Speakers


WORD OF THE DAY
hector
See Definitions and Examples »

Get Word of the Day daily email!

Your email address

TEST YOUR VOCABULARY
Difficult Spelling Words Quiz

alphabet pasta spelling help
Which is the correct spelling?
acommadate
acommodate
accomodate
accommodate
Name That Thing
Test your visual vocabulary with our 10-question challenge!

TAKE THE QUIZ




Love words? Need even more definitions?
Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!

MERRIAM-WEBSTER UNABRIDGED
WORDS AT PLAY
red wine being poured into glass
“In Vino Veritas” and Other Latin Phrases to Live By
Top 10 Latin Phrases

october 22 calendar illustration
Merriam-Webster's Words of the Week - Oct. 22
From the week ending 10/22/2021

image536372841
Silent Letters
When each letter can be seen but not heard

how to use a vs an carrot cake photo
'A' and 'An' and the Patterns of Their Use
Which gets used where?

ASK THE EDITORS
illustrated notebook that says everyday vs every day
'Everyday' vs. 'Every Day'
A simple trick to keep them separate

semantic bleaching text on white background
What Is 'Semantic Bleaching'?
How 'literally' can mean "figuratively"

video literally
Literally
How to use a word that (literally) drives some pe...

video his or her
Is Singular 'They' a Better Choice?
The awkward case of 'his or her'

WORD GAMES
baby panda
Words from Animals Quiz
A list of animals and vocab.

TAKE THE QUIZ

a colorful design of many instruments
Name that Thing: Musical Instruments
Can you correctly identify these musical instrume...

TAKE THE QUIZ

Name That Thing
Name That Thing
Test your visual vocabulary with our 10-question ...

TAKE THE QUIZ




